improving children's safety while
walking and bicycling is a central
mission of safe routes to schools safe
routes to school activities can include
walking school buses bicycle trains and
safety education for all biking is a
great way for kids to move around gain
independence and get exercise before
heading out on the road do the ABC quick
check a is for air check your tires for
air and that they're inflated to the
correct pressure fill up your tires with
enough air so the tire feels as hard as
a basketball B is for brakes squeeze
each separately to make sure it's doing
its job on a bike with coaster brakes
back pedals to make sure everything
works c is for crank and chain jiggle
the crank to make sure they're secure
the chain should move smoothly when the
pedals rotate without drooping quick is
for quick release if your bike has a
quick release lever it releases the tire
make sure they're tight and secure when
you push the lever to close it there
should be an imprint left on your palm
check is for final check listen for
unusual noises like clicking or knocking
tuck in pant legs make sure straps from
shoe laces and backpacks are out of the
way of the bicycles moving part here are
a few additional rules of the road to
follow to keep you and your child safe
while bicycling the first rule is always
wear a helmet it's the law in California
for bicyclists under 18 to always wear a
helmet a helmet should be level on your
head with no dipping or tilting adjust
the helmet straps to snugly form of V
under your ears you should be able to
yawn or sing comfortably with your
helmet on the second rule is children
under 10 should stay on the sidewalk the
third rule is bicyclists have the same
rights and responsibilities as
person driving a car and must follow all
signs and signals the fourth rule is
right on the far right-hand side of the
road in the same direction as traffic
the fifth rule is use extra caution and
driveways and street corners especially
while riding on the sidewalk teach your
child ABC quick check and the rules of
the road at a fun neighborhood bike
rodeo here's how you can set up a bike
rodeo in your neighborhood first
determine the age group for the bike
rodeo group children around a similar
age so they can ride at the same speed
next choose a date time and place then
get the word out about your fun and
exciting event recruit volunteers who
know how to ride a bicycle determine who
will be responsible for bringing the
supplies and which volunteer will be
responsible for each station at the
rodeo be sure everyone brings their bike
and helmet to the rodeo you can even
recruit bike shops sponsors or
volunteers to supply helmets and bikes
for children without them purchase or
try to get donations for supplies they
can include small cones tennis balls cut
in half or even kitchen sponges don't
forget the sidewalk chalk and finally
your bike rodeo day is here have fun
with it but try not to have more fun
than the kids for more information and
detailed instructions on how to set up
your own bike rodeo go to the links on
your screen
[Music]
you